# Polygenic Architecture
## Primary Aim
Most GWAS and related studies attempt to assign SNPs as causative by selecting SNPs on the basis of p-values (sometimes with some statistical corrections for LD or with additional data such as eQTL information). These p-values are based on the combination of (1) betas (effect sizes) and (2) standard error. When looking across studies, these are determined at least partially by sample size, i.e. the relative number of cases and controls, and partially by the precision with which traits can be measured. Within studies, this is determined at least partially by the frequency of polymorphisms (rare vs. common) and the choice of statistical test (e.g. logistical regression vs. chi-square).

These analyses, which prioritise on per-SNP bases, ignore to fact that when one SNP in a specific region of the genome is causal of trait differences, it is highly likely that other SNPs in the same region are also causal, but with lower effects (it is necessarily true that one SNP has the largest effect). In addition, by focusing on genome-wide significant SNPs, large regions of the genome that may contain small-effect SNPs (or many small effect SNPs) are ignored. This is a critical problem because often we might expect that it is specifically these regions that are the most relevant for developing treatments. Why? SNPs with large effects can apparently segregate in the population without having *critical* effects. This is very well phrased in this paper: 

So here we ask whether we can detect these regions. We do this by averaging betas across regions. We can theen correlate average beta across a region, average absolute value of betas, stdev (variance) of betas, etc. Furthermore, to remove the effects of regions with very large betas, we can remove the top N regions, (e.g. the top 1000). Finally, we might want to look at general effects where we think there *should* be effects, for example, nonsyn mutations. So here we can use SNPEff or similar to find out which SNPSs (rsids) have which effects, and then plot or normalise the betas from those. Below I have specific code for doing these analyses.

There are several interesting additional analyses for insight. First, we are interested in genomic regions in which average betas are high, but max beta or max -log10(pval) are low. These would (in general) be areas in which there are many small effect mutations but no large effect mutations that would n ormalkly be detected.  